---
order: 3
parent:
  title: Governance
  order: 3
---

### Contract Code Approval
TRST is used to enable contract code on-chain. Because Trustless Contracts are highly programmable on a block-level, we minimize any attack possibilities by governance code approval. As the incentives of TRST holders is to maximize TRST value, this makes total sense and keeps the the chain secure.

Because we want you to feel good about the apps that you interact with, the Hub gives you, the community, the power to manage the apps that are run. It creates a safe place where anyone can be ensured when interacting Trustless Hub contract, just like the App Store for Apps.

We want to minimize the need for trust in anyone, hence Trustless Hub does not support contract upgradability. The contract code and the contract engine is non-upgradable. This is important for us. Migratable contract code creates opportunities for contract runners to rug-pull. When money is at stake, criminals may find a way. To ensure safety of the code runner and the code users we built the virtual machine in a way that central points of failure are removed. In our design apps can still migrate, and this will require users to move their funds. 



# Trustless Hub specific parameters


#### Contract instances — AutoMessage Fees
Because anyone can run contracts and these can run recurrently, we have carefully designed 10 parameters to control how code is run and how contract incentives are aligned over our stakeholders, contract users, owners and TRST token holders.

For AutoMessages — contract self-execution-  the fee is generated by 3 parameters:

1. FlexFee

A gas-dependent fee, which can be multiplied in case of high transaction volume.

2. ConstantFee and RecurringConstantFee

A fee for a one-time self-execution. Given a high number of transactions for Recurring or One-time only transactions, fees can be increased to allow the network to process more high quality transactions.

3. Commission. When there are funds on the contract when the self-executing duration ends, funds go to the contract owner. The community pool takes a commission of this.

Additionally, TRST is used for general transaction fees in Trustless Contracts. Contract users pay these in native TRST.

### Governance
Next to code approval and setting fees for AutoMessages, TRST governance can set how contracts should be run. Contracts can have a minimun duration as low as a block, as a well as the minimum interval for a recurring contract.

For adoption, governance incentivizes contracts that meet certain conditions. Trustless Contract incentives are given to contracts that meet a minimum contract duration and a minimum token balance. The reward for contracts is available per block and a. maximum reward can be set. 10% of newly issued supply is designated to go to Trustless Contract incentives. This percentage can be also altered by governance — you see governance is everything to ensure good Hub functioning. 



# Governance process

Secondly, parameter changes or software upgrade proposals are technical changes to how the network runs, ideally, that will not halt or disrupt the network in a significant way in terms of downtime.

Examples include but are not limited to:


- how slashing parameters are applied
- how rewards are distributed
- how long the unbonding period is



### Deposit Stage

Anyone can submit a proposal on the Trustless network for others to vote on. The only cost associated with submitting a proposal is the transaction fee, which is as little as 0.000001 TRST. However, over the course of the voting period, a proposal must have at least 512 TRST deposited to it in order for it to proceed to a vote. This voting period is set to be at most 2 weeks, and can be changed though proposals. If the minimum amount of 512 TRST is reached sooner the proposal will pass to voting immediately. 

### Voting Stage

The next stage in the governance process is the voting stage which also lasts 2 weeks. Rather than depositing TRST, participants in this governance stage are actually voting Yes, No, No(With Veto) or Abstain. If a proposal reaches quorum or the minimum threshold defined by the protocol of votes it will pass to the next stage for tallying. Only staked tokens are eligible to be used for governance voting. The amount of voting power is measured in terms of stake. The amount of staked TRST an account has determines how much influence the vote will have on the outcome of a proposal. Further, voters can also change their vote right up until the closing period.

### Tallying Stage

After two weeks the proposal voting will end and the following condition will be taken into consideration to determine if it passes or not:

- Quorum: 
more than 40% of the total staked tokens at the end of the voting period need to have voted
- Threshold: 
More than 50% or a majority of the tokens that participated in the vote, excluding “Abstain” votes must have voted “Yes”
- Veto: 
Less than 33.4% of the tokens that participated in the vote, not counting “Abstain” votes, have vetoed the decision “No (With Veto)”.
If any of these conditions are not met, the deposit associated with the denied proposal will not be refunded. These funds will be sent to the community pool.

Once a parameter change or software upgrade proposal is voted on and passes all conditions it will need to be integrated into a new version of the TRST software by validators while the previous working version continues to run. This is signalling that a switch will occur. Once more than 2⁄3 of the validators download this new version and signal they are ready to make the switch, the rest of the network is expected to do the same.
